---
tags: ['exercise', 'test']
title: Conduct user interviews
---

It's finally time! We're going to put all of your ideas, fears and questions to
the test. Over the years we've learned lots about what makes interviews a
success. It would be easy to think that this is the simplest step of the sprint
process, but there is lots of things to consider before diving in. Here are
some best practices.

## Before the Interview

We find that good preparation can make all the difference between good and not
so good interviews, here are some tips to make sure you are prepared.

### Instruct yourself

Everyone should be aware of roles, responsibilities, and how the interviews
will be conducted. While your team may decide on this in a synchronous
conversation, having it written at the beginning of your script is a great way
to document your plan and provide insight for others that need context.

For example:

- One person (the facilitator) will ask the questions of the interviewee.
- Another person should take notes (for everyone else).
    - Write down anything you think was important.
    - Capture exact words but paraphrasing is okay.
    - Capture exact quotes from users when possible.
    - Capture significant non-verbal reactions, like a very long pause before an answer.
    - If you have a feature idea, or insight beyond what the participant said, mark it in your notes as such.
    - This person should also be responsible for keeping track of time and notifying the facilitator if they are short on time.
- Try to limit the amount of observers in an interview; it should feel like a 1:1 conversation.
    - Have everyone except the facilitator and interviewee turn off their cameras and microphones.
    - If needed, notify the interviewee ahead of time that there will be others on the call.
- Ensure that you have screen sharing, recording, captioning, or any other technologies or accommodations ready.
    - Try to have a back-up plan if a technology fails on either side. For example, if the interviewee has trouble sharing their screen to test a prototype, in some circumstances the facilitator can attempt to share their screen and “drive” while the interviewee gives feedback.

### Scope your interview

Product thinking requires some amount of scoping to help frame the constraints
of your process. We often use a problem statement in design sprints to help
guide our conversations and reign the team in when we’re drifting outside those
boundaries. User interviews (which are sometimes a part of a sprint) should
also include their own scope. This can come in the form of questions we want to
answer. These questions don’t have to be particularly complex or long, but
should capture why the team is looking to get user feedback. They also might
inform your script as well as broadly target assumptions you’d like to test.

For example:

- Do users want to use technology like a mobile device or iPad to order coffee?
- Do users have access to all the information they need to make a coffee selection?
- Is a user able to use their mobile device to order coffee in less than 5 minutes?
- Is a user able to successfully checkout on their device?
- Do users feel assured that their order was received and that they’ll be able to pick up their order in a timely manner?

### Prep for your interviewees

After you’ve scheduled your interviews, have your interviewees’ information
ready at the bottom of your script document (or linked elsewhere if you
prefer). It can be helpful to have these in order of how they appear on your
calendar. You can prepare each interviewee section with their name and any
other relevant background information for your conversation. This is especially
handy when you have back-to-back interviews with little time in between to
review the next person. Have your background and prototype questions (detailed
later in this post) copied into their individual section so the note-taker can
easily write answers underneath.

## During the interview

Here are a few things to keep in mind during your interviews to help you
facilitate better interviews.

### The script is more what you call guidelines, than actual rules

While it is important to develop a script beforehand that will dig into the
assumptions you’re making about the product’s design, following it in the order
that it is authored isn’t a hard and fast rule.

The interview is a conversation, and conversations are fluid things. Trying to
force the interview so as to better check off your talking points in the order
you authored then beforehand may make things feel artificial and forced. It’s
better to memorize your agenda and only reference it for talking points if you
need to.

### Small talk can be big

Ask them how their day is going, or what the weather is like.

Not only will it help the person being interviewed feel more comfortable, it
may segue into topics covered in your script. If you’re free to approach the
script more conversationally, you might be able to check some topics off before
you even get to the prototype.

For one client, learning about one participant’s background gave us insight
into a high impact portion of the product that made assumptions about
circumstances that would have otherwise not have been uncovered. This allowed
us to make adjustments that would preemptively address issues about a
potentially very sensitive topic area.

### Don’t be afraid of uncomfortable silences

Interviews are conducted to get insights. To get insights, you need to get
people talking. While it helps to have a friendly and approachable demeanor,
sometimes that means staying mute until they fill the void with chatter. It’s
an old psychologist’s trick, but it’s a good one.

That doesn't mean being completely silent for the entire process. You
should answer questions if prompted, and should chime in from time to time to
prompt or nudge them along. However, you also need to let your new friend
squirm through uncomfortable things and resist the very real urge to help them
out.

### Pump the brakes

One of the times it is appropriate to speak up is when the participant is
blowing through a prototype and not saying anything. While it’s great that
things are working well enough that the participant can navigate with little
effort, the problem is it’s working a little too well.

If they’re not talking about their experience as they go, it’s not a very
helpful session. Positive interaction can be just as important as negative, but
without the details of what they like and why articulated, it’s difficult to
then later quantify this without guessing intent.

Don’t be afraid to walk a participant back and prompt them to explain
themselves. A quick, neutral question can be great for getting the conversation
flowing (“I noticed you chose X right away. Why’d you go with it?”).

### You don’t have to look smart

Trying to demonstrate to the participant that you know your stuff might not
work out as well as you think it will. Lording your expertise over the
participant may be interpreted by the participant as their opinions not being
worthwhile—the exact opposite of what you want.

Try to stick to neutral questions asked in plain language. It can be helpful to
do your homework and know what industry jargon means beforehand, but getting
the participant to explain what the terms means to them to an outsider can
oftentimes lead to important revelations.

### Be mindful of the Hawthorne effect

Conducting user interviews is important, in that it helps uncover otherwise
unvoiced motivations, frustrations, desires, and needs. That being said, it is
very easy for a whole host of biases to worm their way into the process.

One bias to specifically address is the Hawthorne effect. It occurs when
“individuals modify an aspect of their behavior in response to their awareness
of being observed.” It permeates the entire user interview process.

Most user interview participants will probably want to give you what they
perceive as the “correct” answer—the answer they think you want to hear, even
if isn’t personally what they are feeling. This occurs even if you tell them
not to be concerned about it. While things like analytics and A/B testing can
combat this phenomenon, you have to be sneaky to address it during a user
interview.

Use a head fake: ask the participant to complete one task, but make sure that
the task’s completion flow covers the thing you actually want feedback on. It’s
a little bit devious, but ultimately a victimless crime.

A practical example: Let’s say we want to test the effectiveness of the
redesign of a product customization feature. Ask the participant to complete a
checkout flow, making sure the redesigned product customization screens are
included as part of the session. This way you’ll get your participants
interacting with the thing you want to test, with less concern that they’ll be
giving you the answer they think you want to hear about the thing you actually
care about.

### Introverts are people too

The final piece of advice is to remember that while it may be easier to talk
with a participant who is outgoing and charismatic, you need to not
disproportionately weigh that feedback when compared to the points raised by
quieter individuals.

The observations voiced by introverted and introspective participants are just
as valid as their more gregarious peers, they just may be communicated in a
less outwardly excitable way. It’s your responsibility to determine what
feedback is worth integrating into the product during the synthesization
process, regardless of how that feedback was expressed.

User interviews, when conducted with care and discretion, are great to help
shape your product into something people find desirable and meaningful.
Hopefully these tips can help your next interview session be the best it can
be!

---

This guide has been adapted from Elaina's post ['Steal this interview script'](https://thoughtbot.com/blog/steal-this-interview-script), and Eric's post ['How to Lead Better User Interviews'](https://thoughtbot.com/blog/how-to-lead-better-user-interviews).
